Protocol - two-way-communication between pi and arduino

Serial 'input' are sent from pi to arduino, and 'output' are sent from arduino to pi

Inital serial communication conformation message is outputted to pi
Output string "Now connected to Arduino House"

Fire and Water Leak threats are constantly checked and a message outputted to pi on state change
Ex Fire:
Output string "FIRE!!" or "no fire."

Ex Water Leak:
Output string "WATERLEAK!!" or "no water leak."

Examples of commands to the arduino are first described, followed by
an example of how a python script on a pi could send a request to the arduino
and then receive a response.

Ex ping: Check if arduino is connected
Input string "ping"
Output string "Arduino is connected" if arduino can receive serial input from pi.

Ex 1: Turn on burglar alarm
Input string "1"
Output string "Burglar alarm on"

Ex 2: Turn off burglar alarm
Input string "2"
Output string "Burglar alarm off"

Ex 3: empty

Ex 4: Turn off fire alarm
Input string "4"
Output string "Fire alarm off"

Ex 5: Turn on lamp outside
Input string "5"
Output string "Lamp outside on"

Ex 6: Turn off lamp outside
Input string "6"
Output string "Lamp outside off"

Ex 7: Turn on lamp inside
Input string "7"
Output string "Lamp inside on"

Ex 8: Turn off lamp inside
Input string "8"
Output string "Lamp outside off"

Ex 9: Check if door is open
Input string "9"
Output string "on" or "off"

Ex 10: Check temperature outside
Input string "10"
Output celsius in string

Ex 11: Turn on radiator
Input string "11"
Output string "Radiator main floor on"

Ex 12: Turn off radiator
Input string "12"
Output string "Radiator main floor off"

Ex 13: Check if burglar alarm is on
Input string “13”
Output string “Burglar alarm is on” or “Burglar alarm is off”

Ex 14: Check if fire alarm is on
Input string “14”
Output string “Fire alarm is on” or “Fire alarm is off”

Ex 15: Check if outside lamp is on
Input string “15”
Output string “Outside lamp is on” or “Outside lamp is off”

Ex 16: Check if indoor lamp is on
Input string “16”
Output string “Indoor lamp is on” or “Indoor lamp is off”

Ex 17: Check temperature inside (upstairs)
Input string "17"
Output celsius in string

Ex 18: Check temperature inside (downstairs)
Input string "18"
Output celsius in string

Ex 19: Check state of house (Fire)
Input string "19"
Output string "FIRE!!" / "no Fire."

Ex 20: Check state of house (Water Leak)
Input string "20"
Output string "WATER LEAK!!" / "No water leak."

Ex 21: Check state of house (Stove)
Input string "21"
Output string "Stove ON." / "Stove OFF."

Ex 22: Check state of house (Window)
Input string "22"
Output string "Window OPEN." / "Window Closed."

If input to arduino doesn't match any of these commands:
Output string "Not known command"




Instructions for connection from pi:
Example of python script run from a Raspberry Pi 3:
import serial
ser = serial.Serial('/dev/ttyACM0', 9600)
ser.write('3') #Turns on fire alarm
print(ser.readLine()) #Prints out respons from arduino
